# LRS-Attack

[[Paper]()] [[Supp]()] [[Poster]()] [[Video]()]

The official implementation of [**\[ICML 2026\] "Low-Rank and Sparsity Are All You Need: Exploring Robust Hierarchical Latent Subspaces for Transferable Adversarial Attack", Shuangshuang Pu, Wen Yang, Min Li, Guodong Liu, Chris Ding, Di Ming*.**]()

## Introduction

Adversarial examples pose serious threats to deep neural networks, exposing fundamental vulnerabilities in model robustness. However, most existing adversarial attacks directly manipulate densely activated and highly redundant feature representations, often leading to overfitting on surrogate models and poor black-box transferability. Recent SVD-based attack attempts to exploit low-rank feature subspaces, yet its reliance on single-layer optimization and single-gradient pathway neglects structural redundancy in feature representations and hierarchical heterogeneity across network layers. To address these limitations, we propose LRS-Attack, a low-rank and sparse decomposition-based attack that explicitly models robust hierarchical subspaces in latent feature spaces. Specifically, the low-rank component captures dominant semantic directions, while the sparse component captures localized and discriminative patterns. To efficiently extract low-rank structure while preserving subspace fidelity, we develop a warm-started alternating low-rank approximation algorithm. Moreover, we introduce a hierarchical mixture of robust experts that leverages depth-dependent feature characteristics and guides gradient optimization toward more transferable adversarial directions. Extensive experiments on ImageNet show that LRS-Attack consistently improves black-box transferability over state-of-the-art methods across diverse CNN/ViT architectures and defense settings.

# Getting Start

## Dependencies
- Python 3.9.12
- torch 2.8.0
- pretrainedmodels 0.7.4
- numpy 1.26.4
- pandas 2.3.2

## Usage Instructions
- Prepare models

  1. Download pretrained [CNN](https://github.com/ylhz/tf_to_pytorch_model) and [Vision Transformer](https://github.com/ylhz/tf_to_pytorch_model) models. Then put these models into `./models/` before running the code.

  2. We conduct experiments on the ImageNet-compatible dataset, comprising 1000 images, used in the NIPS 2017 adversarial competition. The image path is `./dataset/images`.
     
- Generate adversarial examples

  1. Generate Adversarial Examples via CNN-based Attacks
  ```bash  
  # Implement MI-FGSM
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python MI-FGSM.py
  # Implement DI-FGSM 
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python DI-FGSM.py
  # Implement TI-FGSM 
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python TI-FGSM.py
  # Implement PI-FGSM 
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python PI-FGSM.py
  # Implement GI-FGSM 
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python GI-FGSM.py
  # Implement SI-NI-FGSM
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python SI-NI-FGSM.py
  # Implement VMI-FGSM
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python VMI-FGSM.py
  ```
  where `gpuid` can be set to any free GPU ID in your machine. The adversarial examples generated by each attack will be saved in the corresponding directory under `./outputs/`.
  
  2. Generate Adversarial Examples via ViT-based Attacks
  ```bash 
  # Implement MIM
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python MIM.py
  # Implement PNA
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python PNA.py
  # Implement TGR 
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python TGR.py
  # Implement ATT 
  CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=gpuid python ATT.py
  ``` 
  The adversarial examples generated by each ViT attack will be saved in the corresponding directory under `./outputs_vit/`.
  
- Evaluation on CNN Models

  Run `verify_cnns.py` to evaluate the attack success rate.

  ```bash
  python verify_cnns.py
  ```

- Evaluation on Vision Transformer models

  Run `verify_vits.py` to evaluate the attack success rate.

  ```bash
  python verify_vits.py
  ```
   
- Evaluations on defenses
  
  To evaluate the attack success rates on defense models, we test eight defense models which contain four adversarial trained models (Inc-v3adv, Inc-v3ens3, Inc-v3ens4, IncRes-v2ens) and four more advanced models (HGD, JPEG, R&P, NIPS-r3).
  
  - [Inc-v3adv, Inc-v3ens3, Inc-v3ens4, IncRes-v2ens](https://github.com/ylhz/tf_to_pytorch_model):You can directly run `verify_cnns.py` to test these models.
  
  - [HGD](https://github.com/lfz/Guided-Denoise),[R&P](https://github.com/cihangxie/NIPS2017_adv_challenge_defense),[NIPS-r3](https://github.com/anlthms/nips-2017/tree/master/mmd):We directly run the code from the corresponding official repo.
  
  - [JPEG](https://github.com/JHL-HUST/VT/blob/main/third_party/jpeg.py):Refer to [here](https://github.com/JHL-HUST/VT/blob/main/third_party/jpeg.py).


## Acknowledgments

 Code refers to [FIA](https://github.com/hcguoO0/FIA), [RPA](https://github.com/alwaysfoggy/RPA).

 We thanks the authors for sharing sincerely.

## Citation

 If you find this work is useful in your research, please cite our paper:

```
@InProceedings{ICCV25_SMP_Attack,
    author    = {Yang, Wen and Liu, Guodong and Ming, Di},
    title     = {SMP-Attack: Boosting the Transferability of Feature Importance-based Adversarial Attack with Semantics-aware Multi-granularity Patchout},
    booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)},
    month     = {October},
    year      = {2025},
    pages     = {4444-4454}
}

```

## Contact

[Wen Yang](https://github.com/Winwina8/Winwina8.github.io/): [winwina8@126.com](mailto:winwina8@126.com)

[Di Ming (*Corresponding Author)](https://midasdming.github.io/): [diming@cqut.edu.cn](mailto:diming@cqut.edu.cn)
